---
layout: post
title: "Homelab Exploration - Day 1"
date: 2024-11-22 22:07:06 -0700
categories: homelab
---

Hello everyone!

I'm gonna `try` to document my experiments with this Mini PC I bought recently.
The exact specs for it you can get from here: [Beelink SER6](https://www.amazon.ca/dp/B0C3VM4WTJ?ref=ppx_yo2ov_dt_b_fed_asin_title&th=1){:target="_blank"}

We will install Ubuntu Server on it, and run it headless for now. I'll be using my laptop to SSH into it and do all the work.

## Issue 1

So after setting up Ubuntu Server following the steps (cmon bro you should know this.), I tried to SSH into it from my MacBook, but it just wouldn't connect.

---
<br>
Ideally what you would do is:

1) Check ssh status and start and enable.
```bash
    sudo systemctl start ssh
    sudo systemctl status ssh
    sudo systemctl enable ssh
```

2) Check the IP address of the server and under the active network interface.
```bash
    ip a
```

3) SSH into the server from my laptop using the IP address.
```bash
    ssh <username>@<ipFrom2>
```
[You can also `ssh-keygen` on your laptop and `ssh-copy-id` to avoid entering the password every time]

---
<br>
But it just wouldn't connect. I tried pinging the IP address and it was unreachable.
I tried messing with the firewall settings, but nothing seemed to work.

Maybe my university's network is blocking it? It's 3AM so I look for solutions.
I found a solution called [Tailscale](https://tailscale.com){:target="_blank"}. Basically a service that creates a point-to-point VPN between your devices, and for authentication, it uses your Google account, can also do 2FA. Cool stuff.

So I installed it on both my laptop and the server, then I could SSH into it. The aliases are also cool, I can just `ssh username@servername` and it just works.

Alright. I'm tired. I'll continue tomorrow. \
Goodnight/morning?
